---
title: "Notes for episode-0082"
date: 2016-03-05
draft: false
---

# Rust-1.7
http://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/03/02/Rust-1.7.html

* Library stabilisation.
* HashMap : SipHash algorithm + FNV hash algorithm
* Cargo minor changes

# Java vs Rust
https://llogiq.github.io/2016/02/28/java-rust.html

- History
- Runtime
  - just in time (JIT) compilation in JVM -> profile based optimisation
  - Rust - is fast, but could be slower, depends on you :)
  - in Rust - orders of magnitude less memory
  - Java GC is very optimized -> painless programming.
  - you can write complex code to use less memory.
  - Rust has zero-sized runtime
  - Rust is compiled language -> less portable. But LLVM -> easier to support many architectures
  - lifetime- and ownership- rules: headache and help
- Types:
  - Java’s primitive type are a subset of Rust’s
  - Java: integral operations are wrapping (no overflow check).
  - Rust: integral operations are checked in debug, wrapping in release.
  - Rust has tuple
  - Rust and Java keep generics to compile time
  - Rust type system is more mightier, turing capable. Uses generics to communicate lifetime information
  - Java: null
  - Java: automatic widening coercion: int -> long
  - Rust has only ‘deref coercion’. Code is easy to understand and predict the type.
  - Rust’s immutability by default
  - it may be harder to write Rust code than Java code
  - it’s a lot harder to write incorrect Rust code than incorrect Java code
  - “compiles -> will work”
- Java has Class, Rust has Trait
  - in Rust you think about data at first, then about behaviour
- Destructing pattern matching in Rust
- Functions and Closures
  - Java has lambdas. Rust too (can modify captured env if ownership allows)
  - Java streams offer a low-code way to data-parallelise computations
  - Rust doesn’t, but has 3d-party libs
  - Java dispatches functions based on argument types. Mangling 
  - Rust: the same set of arguments + generics some_fun<S: Into<String>>(s: S)
