---
title: "Notes for episode-0245"
date: 2019-06-08T21:49:17+04:00
draft: false
tags:
- devzen
- english
---

# Some Were Meant for C
https://www.cs.kent.ac.uk/people/staff/srk21//research/papers/kell17some-preprint.pdf

- The C language is used for: writing application and writing system code ("communicative")
- For both parts performance is not THAT needed
- It has a lot of problems. Then why is it so popular?
- Several possible explanations:
    - "C" values simplicity, tolerates incorrectness, inconsistency and incompleteness
    - Only "C" allows to write a "communicative code" to allow several solutions to work together. 
        Memory - is a "communication channel"
    - E.g. you can implement a function to call callbacks from some memory blocks: void (*cb)("some args")
    - It can be JIT-compiled regions, code compiled from other languates, etc
    - "C" chooses not to encapsulate everything, but rather have some agreement between all participants (ABI)
- Why "C" is not safe?
    - "Managed" memory (= safe memory management) always mean working inside our own memory.
    - All languages have "unsafe" instructions (including Rust, Haskell)
    - "Communication" level requires to work with not "our own memory" => unsafe.
    - What is "safe" language (!!!!!):
        - Catching errors immediately and cleanly rather than gradually and corruptingly
        - Behaviour of any program can be easily understood in terms of the source-level language semantics
    - But "safety" is possible! Not in language spec, but in language implementationk:
    - Check casting, have some tags in every pointer, properly check casting.
    - Temporal safety is possible (=> pointer to paper)
    - "Nowhere does C define that array accesses are unchecked... implementations don't check it"
    - Overrunning pointer into some other object - undefined behaviour. Should catch this errors
    - META-level (meta-circular), when the next level adds some additional abstraction
        ("define simple c compiler" to compile "usual c")- possible to be safe
- Undefined, Unspecified, Implementation-specific
    - Undefined is not to optimize anything. It means that the error can't be detect in all possible cases
- IMHO:
    - It is not a "technical paper". It should have been said in the very beginning!
    - Could be shortened at least twice! Sometimes it is difficult to read (one sentence per paragraph, repetitions, etc)
    - I can't agree that safety should not be specified in the language spec (instead - in implementation).
        If you don't specify anything in spec, it won't survive.
    -
