---
title: "Notes for episode-0255"
date: 2019-08-24T19:45:15+03:00
tags:
- devzen
- english
---

# "What We Know We Don't Know" or "Empirical Software Engineering"
https://www.hillelwayne.com/talks/what-we-know-we-dont-know/

- Video from goto; conference + plenty of links
- Do you believe that "small functions are better then large functions"?
- Are you more confidence in that ^^ or in the "vaccine help against flu"?
- We don't have Empirical results for Software Engineering!!!
- Everything we know about SE is a believe!
- Empirical Software Engineering (ESE): test, observe, find out what is true, and what is just "feel good"
- Why?
  - I'm developer, I want to get better, I need to know what works and what just "feels good"
  - Financial. 10% of GDP: IT. If we are 1% inefficient => we set on fire GDP of Iceland every year.
  - To protect ourselves from Charismatic Leaders and Preditors. Charisma Driven Development should be stoped. SOLID? Agile? Scrum?
- What is "Better"? Cyclomatic Complexity? And how do you know it works?
  - Quantitative study - hard numbers and comparison
  - Qualitative study - Experiences, thoughts, actions
- "Effects of Clean Code on Understandability" https://www.duo.uio.no/bitstream/handle/10852/51127/master.pdf
  - "Clean Code" book by Robert Martin:
    - Meaningful Names
    - Funcdtions should do one thing
    - Functions should be small
    - Don't repeat yourself
    - Single Responsibility Principle
    - Clean Tests (5 additional rules for tests)
  - Refactored code (Clean Code), two different groups worked on different code.
  - Clean Code doesn't improve the time used to implement new functionality
  - Clean Code improves the time used to change current functionality
  - Clean Code does not improve the time used to find and solve a bug
- The best paper about it: "Fixing Faults in C and Java Source Code: Abbreviated vs Full-Word Identifier Names" http://www2.unibas.it/gscanniello/Giuseppe_Scanniello%40unibas/Home_files/TOSEM.pdf
  - `employer_number` vs `emp_num`
  - It doesn't matter
  - Qualitative study: change of name -> change how people debug code
- FINDING DEFECTS
- Code Smells. "On the diffuseness and the impact on maintainability of code smells: a large scale empirical investigation". https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10664-017-9535-z
  - Code Smells definition.
  - 1. The most diffused smells are the one related to size and complexity (Long Method, Spaghetti Code)
  - 2. Classes affected by code smells tend to be more change- and fault-prone. High fault-proneness is evident for smells such as Massage Chain that are not highly diffused.
  - 3. Removing code smells is beneficial most of the times for the code change-proneness. Fault-proneness is not changed if code smells are removed/added.
- Conway's Law. "organizations which design systems ... are constrained to produce designs which are copies of the communication structures of these organizations."
- "THE INFLUENCE OF ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE ON SOFTWARE QUALITY: AN EMPIRICAL CASE STUDY" https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/tr-2008-11.pdf
- Complexity metrics -> "Beyond Lines of Code: Do we Need More Complexity Metrics?“
- "Simple Testing Can Prevent Most Critical Failures"
- PREVENTING DEFECTS
- TDD? Not sure. It increases the quality. Though, it increases the time used to write tests. What reduces the number of bugs?
- Pair Programming? Type Systems? Not sure either.
- Code Review DOES HELP. 60-80% bugs are found during Code Review. Code Quality, Knowledge Sharing, etc...
- Sleep deprivation, Stress, Overwork -> increase risks. Order of magnitude better code if everything is ok.
- 1 week of 2h sleep deprivation each day = 1 night sleep miss -> Half as productive.
    + You can't detect that you work worse!
    + You can't fix that except sleep more.
- "Crunch Makes Games Worse". Games made during "Crunch" is worse on every metrics (including profitability)
- Sleep, Stress - social, organizational, not technical => is not discussed widely.
